------ack1234
Content-Type: multipart/alternative; boundary="----alt_border_1"

------alt_border_1
Content-Type: text/plain; charset="ISO-8859-1"
Content-Transfer-Encoding: quoted-printable

Greetings!

One of the best ways land a new job quickly, especially in a
tight job market, is to email your resume to as many
recruiters as possible that work in your area and specialize
in people with your skills.

However, finding these recruiters and sending them each an
email can be an enormous amount of work. Many have
successfully used ResumeMailman.com to email their resume to
1000's of these recruiters instantly!

This service has exceptional recruiter targeting, long
standing experience, and a great reputation with a huge group
of quality recruiters.

ResumeMailman network recruiters have connections to tons
of unadvertised jobs. Your resume is instantly emailed to 1000's
of recruiters in your selected areas, specializing in your
selected skill sets.

The whole process can be completed in about 10 minutes flat!
You can even get a free confidential email address with your
order AND receive a contact list of all the recruiters who
received your resume!

Just check out:
http://www.allexecs.com/offers/deal/02-07-17-1.html - it's easy.

Since 1998 ResumeMailman.com's resume distribution engine has
helped tens of 1000's of people distribute their resume and
get jobs. Why not let them do the same for you.

Sincerely,

Steve Adler
steveadler@allexecs.com

=========================================================

The staff of AllExecs.com have years of recruiting
experience and may from time to time send you a review of
career tips and tools that have helped others in their job
search. If you'd rather not receive these reviews go to
http://www.allexecs.com/unsubscribe

=========================================================
------alt_border_1
Content-Type: text/html; charset="ISO-8859-1"

Allexecs.com

Greetings!

One of the best ways land a new job quickly, especially in a
tight job market, is to email your resume to as many
recruiters as possible that work in your area and specialize
in people with your skills.

However, finding these recruiters and sending them each an
email can be an enormous amount of work. Many have
successfully used ResumeMailman.com to email their resume to
1000's of these recruiters instantly!

This service has exceptional recruiter targeting, long
standing experience, and a great reputation with a huge group
of quality recruiters.

ResumeMailman network recruiters have connections to tons
of unadvertised jobs. Your resume is instantly emailed to 1000's
of recruiters in your selected areas, specializing in your
selected skill sets.

The whole process can be completed in about 10 minutes flat!
You can even get a free confidential email address with your
order AND receive a contact list of all the recruiters who
received your resume!

Just check out http://www.resumemailman.com - it's easy.

Since 1998 ResumeMailman.com's resume distribution engine has
helped tens of 1000's of people distribute their resume and
get jobs. Why not let them do the same for you.

Sincerely,

Steve Adler
steveadler@allexecs.com

=========================================================

The staff of AllExecs.com have years of recruiting
experience and may from time to time send you a review of
career tips and tools that have helped others in their job
search. If you'd rather not receive these reviews go to
http://www.allexecs.com/unsubscribe

=========================================================

------alt_border_1--
------ack1234--

