>>>>> On Thu, 25 Jul 2002, "Stephen" == Stephen Hocking wrote:

Stephen> What I'd like to do is use an imap capable mailer to
Stephen> communicate with an imap server that is serving up my MH
Stephen> folders. Does anyone know of any Imap servers that can do
Stephen> this?

This topic comes up every so often on this list. The short answer is
no, there really isn't an IMAP server which knows how to do this.

The longer answer is, UW-IMAP claims it does, but doesn't do a good
job, and doesn't update scan caches, unseen, etc.

You may have better luck while on the road using raw mh commands to
read you e-mail if you have ssh access to your internal environment.
I've been doing this for quite a long time, and, after the learning
curve of the mh command set (which I still don't know completely),
I'm quite able to access my e-mail and respond to those e-mails which
require a response.

Another option is using mutt as your mail client when you're remotely
accessing e-mail. Mutt does a decent job of dealing with mh folders,
though it doesn't update scan caches or unseen files either. But it
is a decent interface alternative to raw mh, and it's quite
customizable.

The real answer to your question is that we need not an IMAP server
that understands mh folders, but an mh server to which a local client
could connect to. In theory, it shouldn't be too hard (technically)
to cobble this together with ssh. Replace all of exmh's calls to mh
commands with a wrapper which uses ssh to lob these commands over to
a remote system, and dump the output back into the local exmh client.

--

Seeya,
Paul

_______________________________________________
Exmh-users mailing list
Exmh-users@redhat.com
https://listman.redhat.com/mailman/listinfo/exmh-users

